# Propellant

## Work Capacity
The <u>force</u> (or <u>specific energy</u>), $f$, metric measures the work that is done when 
the gas product, generated by burning a unit mass of energetics, is expended in
an adiabatic, reversible manner. 

Equivalently, it is the difference between the energy and enthalpy of gas product produced
by the combustion of a unit mass of energetics, at its adiabatic isochoric (constant volume)
flame temperature.

In practice, the tabulated value is derived from ballistics testing via an instrument known as 
a ballistic "bomb", at some standard load density, with the result valid for a range of load
density close to the experimental condition. It is given in the unit of work per unit mass.

## Burn Rate
Combustion progress normal to the surfaces of propellant grains, at a rate proportional to 
pressure, according to the Viellie's Law:

$$
\frac{d}{dt}e = u_0 P^n
$$

Where:

- $e$ propellant web
- $u_0$ burn-rate coefficient
- $P$ mean pressure
- $n$ pressure exponent

## Equation of State
The limited compressibility of gas at gun temperatures and pressures is modelled with
the Nobel-Abel equation of state, introducing a <u>co-volume</u> term $\alpha$ to the 
ideal-gas law:

$$
\begin{align}
\frac{P}{\rho_{gas}} &= \frac{RT}{M_{mol}} \qquad && \text{Ideal Gas} \\
P (\frac{1}{\rho_{gas}} - \alpha) &= \frac{RT}{M_{mol}} && \text{Nobel-Abel}
\end{align}
$$

Where:

- $\rho$ density
- $R$ universal gas constant
- $T$ temperature
- $M_{mol}$ molar mass of the gas
- $\alpha$ co-volume

Covolume is determined via ballistic bomb test and given in sources in the 
inverse unit for density.

## Geometry
The standard measurement for propellant 

The <u>form function</u> relates the surface area and unburnt volume. Quadratic
and cubic polynomials are the most common forms.

$$
\begin{align}
\psi(Z) &= \frac{w_{burnt}}{w} \\
Z &= \frac{e}{e_1}
\end{align}
$$

Where:

- $Z$: relative width/thickness of unburnt propellant
- $\psi$: relative volume/mass of burnt propellant.

Grains of simple shapes (sphere, tape, flake), and single-perforated (tubular) 
grains are accurately described. Multiple perforated grains are accurately 
described until fracture, the post-fracture phase is approximated.

